Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans : We use a programming language to write instructions for the computer.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans : It's a Java software development environment from Oracle. It contains the JVM, compiler, debugger, applications.

What is IDE?
Ans : Integrated Development Environment is a software program to write (edit, create...) application.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans : Eclipse, IntelliJ, Netbeans

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans: On an editor (like Eclipse), we write our codes which will be compiled in a compiler (Javac), to java bytecodes.
The Java Virtual Machine runs this bytecodes --> result(operating system).

what is class?
Ans : A class is a template of Java that specify the creation and behavior of its instances(objects).

What is object?
Ans : An object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans : It is where we execute the first instruction of application. it's Public Static Void main (String [] args{}.

Why main is static?
Ans : Since the main method is the starting point from where compiler starts program execution, it should be able to be
called without creating an object.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans : Object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans : Classpath --> specifies the location of pre-defined classes and packages.
Path --> define the location of executables files (.bin).

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans : Abstract class --> It can have non-abstract methods. Variables can be non-static and non-final.
Interface --> The methods are abstract by default, and they cannot have implementations. Variables are static and final.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans : No. --> create a subclass of this abstract class and implement it.

what is Access Specifier?
Ans : It's a keyword that defines how the elements of a class can be accessed like public, private, default, protected.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans : Object Oriented Programming is a programming based on creating objects that contain both data and methods.
Its features are:
*abstraction --> hiding data from the user, but not the functionality.
*encapsulation --> wrapping data with their methods in a single unit. We use setter and getter methods to set and get
the data in it
*inheritance --> acquiring the properties of class (methods and fields) into another class.
*polymorphism --> a process of relating classes to each other by inheritance.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans : A Java package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes, interfaces, subpackages. java.lang package
is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans : Application Programming Interface is a interface that allows multiple software to talk to each other.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Ans : No, it doesn't. That is to avoid ambiguity because many classes could have the same methods display.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans : Overloading allows a class to have many methods with the same name but with different parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans :

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans :static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same for every instance of a class. A static member
can be accessed without creating an object.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans : Final is a keyword used to specify that a member can only be assigned once. A final variable have always the same
value. Final methods can't be overridden. Final class can't be inherited.

What is final, finally and finalize?
*Finally is a block which is used to guarantee that a program will be executed even if an exception is thrown.
*Finalize

What is a constructor ?
Ans : A constructor is a special method to initialize objects. It is called when an abject of a class is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Ans : Yes, but they must not have the same parameters.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans : default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans : "this" is a reference variable that refers to the current object or instance.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans : It is used to call superclass methods, and to access the superclass constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
Ans : Java Virtual Machine is a set of software programs and data structures to execute other computer programs and
scripts. It converts Java bytecode into machines language, and then operating systems.

Is JVM platform independent?
Ans : No.

What version of java are you using?
Ans : java version "11.0.8" 2020-07-14 LTS

What is JAR stand for ?
Ans : It stands for Java Archives. It is a package file that is used to aggregate many java class files into one file
distribution.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Ans : JDK --> Java Developer Kit : software development environment to develop java applications and applets. It
contains JVM and other libraries, files and development tools.
JVM --> Java Virtual Machine : environment to execute bytecode.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans : JVM works inside a JRE with other files and libraries.

What is compile time and run time?
Ans : Compile time -->  time duration in which the programming code is converted to the machine code (Compile).
Run time --> when the program executes.

What is heap?
Ans : It's the area where the data is executed (Where we create objects). It's created on a virtual machine.

How java manage it's memory?
Ans :  Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector. Java memory divides into :
- JVM memory structure.
- Working of the garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans : - String : immutable
- StringBuffer : mutable, synchronized thread safe.
-StringBuilder : mutable, faster, non synchronized non thread safe.

What is Singleton class?
Ans : A class that can have only one object at a time (we make the constructor as private.)

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Ans : -Serialization : mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
- Deserialization : reverse of the first one. Byte stream --> create the Java object.

When to use transient variable in java?
Ans : To avoid Serialization. If an object is declared as transient, then it can't be serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Ans : - While loop check condition before iteration of the loop. It is executed only when given condition is true.
- Do while loop verifies the condition after the execution of the statements inside the loop.

What is Enum?
Ans : Enum (enumerated type) is a set of  elements, members, or enumerators of the type. We use an enum when we need
a predefined list of values.

What is Iterator?
Ans : It is an object used to iterate elements one by one from a list.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Ans : Iterator.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Ans : To guarantee that it will always be the same because this hashcode is frequently used.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Ans : It is the process of invoking a sequence of constructors upon initialization of a class object. It's  Calling a
constructor from the another constructor of same class

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Ans : is that a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC threadfor garbage collection
while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for garbage collection.

What is JIT stands for?
Ans : Just In Time means that Java Virtual Machine invokes the compiled code of the method directly without interpreting
it.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Ans : - Java heap space is where the objects are called.
- When Heap space is full, garbage is collected to make space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Ans :

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Ans : - Heap for dynamic memory allocation, used by all the parts of the application.
- Stack is used for static memory allocation,  used only by one thread of execution.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Ans : It allows us to inspect and manipulate classes, interfaces, constructors, methods, and fields at run time.

what is multithreading in java?
Ans : It is a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously to maximum utilization of CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Ans : It is used to lock an object for any shared resource.

What is Framework?
Ans : It is a platform for developing software applications.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Ans : JUnit

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Ans : - TestNG supports parallel testing
- JUnit does not.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Ans :

what is dependency injection in java?
Ans : It is a technique in which an object receives other objects that it depends on

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Ans : It is  execution of a program where type of object is known at compile time.