Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

Why do we need data structure?
Ans : With data structures, we can manage easily large amounts of data like large databases. It makes retrieving and
locating information easier. We use Array, Hash, set...

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Ans : - sorting - deletion - insertion - Creation..

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Ans : - operating system -graphics - compiler - numerical analysis..

What is an Array?
Ans : It's a data structure which consists on a collection and arrangement of elements.(in columns..).

What is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Ans : - Array : Fixed length data structure
- Arraylist : Variable length collection class. It can store only objects.

what is LinkedList?
Ans : it is a collection of elements of the same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
Ans : Unlike linked list, array elements can be accessed randomly using the array index. Stored into static memory
location.

what is queue?
Ans : It is an interface which is used to insert elements at the end of the queue and removes from the beginning of the
 queue. It follows FIFO concept.

What is stack?
Ans : LIFO data structure which implements the Java list interface. It has two basic operations : push and pop.

What is FIFO and LIFO?
Ans : They are methods for handling data structures.
 - FIFO : first in, first out --> used by queue
- LIFO : last in, first out --> used by stack

What is the order of complexity?
Ans :

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Ans : selection sort

What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Ans : key points

What is tree in data structure?
Ans : It is is a nonlinear data structure unlike arrays and linked list. It has a root value and subtrees that are
interrelated.

What is graph in data structure?
Ans : It is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are connected by links. It
 consists of vertices and edge.

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Ans : - HashMap : non synchronized, not thread safe. It allows null key or value.
- HashTable : synchronized, it doesn't allow any null key or value.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
Ans : - RDBMS : Array / Network data model : graph / Hierarchical data model : Tree.

How HashMap works in java?
Ans : It's a map used to store pairs of key-value on a hashing principles.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
Ans : It is a run-time exception which is thrown when an array has been accessed with an illegal index.(index< or >size).

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Ans : -System.arraycopy()
-Arrays.copyOf()
-Manually
-Object.clone

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Ans : already respond.

What is DFS and BFS?
Ans : -BFS(Breadth First Search) : uses Queue data structure for finding the shortest path.
-DFS(Depth First Search) uses Stack data structure. It goes deep in each branch before moving to explore another branch.

What is Recursion?
Ans : defining a proplem with itself. Making a function call itself.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Ans : -Linear data structures: Array, Queue, Stack LinkedList, Stack.
-Non linear data structures: Graphs, Tree.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Ans : It's a representation of an algorithm's complexity. It describes how an algorithm performs and scales.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.